You're watching the China Show. We are
bringing you live pictures from Bondi
Beach in Sydney where tributes are
pouring in as a nation mourns the
victims of Australia's worst terrorist
attack.
At least 16 people were killed. Mass
shooting of course which took place on
Sunday. You had two gunmen, a father and
a son open fire on a crowd celebrating
the first day of Hanukkah in the park
next to the beach. Now, we've heard
since the tragedy and since the incident
on Sunday out of the Australian Prime
Minister Anthony Albanese calling it a
targeted attack on the Jewish community.
What we saw yesterday was an act of pure
evil.
An act of anti-Semitism.
An act of terrorism on our shores in an
iconic Australian location. Bondi Beach.
That is associated with joy, associated
with families gathering, associated with
celebrations.
And it is forever tarnished by what has
occurred last evening.
ABC News reporter Isabel Roe is joining
us from the ground right now. Isabel,
thank you for taking the time to join
us. If you could get our
viewers just up to speed in what's
taking place as as we speak.
Sure. So, where I am right now is in
Campsie which is in inner western
Sydney. It's the opposite side of Sydney
city to the beach where this unfolded
yesterday. The reason why we're here is
because this is the place where the two
gunmen who open fire on that group of
Jewish people celebrating Hanukkah
yesterday have been staying. It is a
short-term rental accommodation. We
understand that the father and son who
were living in Bonnyrigg, a far western
suburb of Sydney, at some point came to
this house to plan their attack. There
has been police that have raided this
house overnight.
They have seized a number of items. We
know that the father
of those two gunmen was killed
yesterday. He had six firearms. He was
licensed to have them. His son,
24-year-old man, was not killed but he
is in a critical condition in hospital
having been injured in that shootout
yesterday. So,
police remain at this scene in Campsie
here and have course
there are police at a second scene, that
house in Bonnyrigg in Sydney's far west,
and at Bondi Beach where this unfolded
yesterday.
Isabel,
you don't hear this quite often in
Australia, right? This brings us back to
one of the most fatal mass shootings
that we've seen since what happened in
Port Arthur in Tasmania in 1996. And it
was after that tragedy that led to some
sweeping gun control measures in
Australia. Can you can you just let our
viewers know just how rare
you know, an event like this is in
Australia?
We are extraordinarily lucky to not see
things like this.
As you say, our last mass shooting of
this scale was an incredibly long time
ago. The Prime Minister at the time,
John Howard, made sweeping changes to
gun laws
at the time. Now,
um Australia as a result does not see
mass shootings in the way that countries
like the US for example do.
This is something that was seen by
hundreds of people at Bondi yesterday.
We've seen pictures of people running
from the scene. They heard gunshots.
They jumped out of the water.
It was I had friends who hid in the
bathrooms of restaurants. It's just
something that Australians do not have
to deal with. We don't see people even
walking around with guns in this
country. So, to have two men with large
guns standing and shooting at a busy
beach is just
unheard of.
Isabel, do we know
how the two were able to come across the
firearms? What what do we know at this
point about about about that?
At this stage that is under
investigation. What we do know is that
this father and son
as I said were one of them was licensed
gun owners. We also know that ASIO,
Australia's security agency, had
investigated the son six years ago for
links to an Australian-based Islamic
terror cell. So, that is information
that the ABC has been able to confirm
this morning. No doubt inquiries are
continuing as to uh why these men did
what they did, what their motive is.
As as we say, one of the men was killed
yesterday. The other man was shot but in
a critical condition in hospital. But
police are going through their
belongings both at their house and at
this scene in Campsie here to try and
determine more about their motive.
Isabel, thank you so much. Isabel Roe
there, ABC News reporter joining us with
the latest there of Sydney. And as
Isabel just mentioned, right? This this
was you know, what the government is
calling an act of terrorism that was
targeting a Jewish community. And
certainly you know, there are a lot of
calls now from the likes of Israel,
right? We heard from the Prime Minister
Netanyahu calling out Australia as in
they failed to protect Jews despite the
warnings. Let's take a listen.
It pours fuel
on the anti-Semitic fire.
It encourages the Jew hatred now
stalking your streets.
Anti-Semitism is a cancer.
It spreads when leaders stay silent
and replace
You must replace weakness with action.
Let's get more perspective now from our
economy and government editor Michael
Heath. He joins us from Sydney. Michael,
obviously this incident brings about a
lot of questions about not just gun
control
but also immigration and really
Australia's relationship with Israel.
How how is the government responding to
this?
Yeah, Yvonne. I mean, Australia has has
had a really close, really long
relationship with Israel. The the ruling
Labor Party now was one of the sponsors
in the UN
for the recognition of Israel
you know
in the in the late 40s. So,
it's it's you know,
they're quite strong remarks and and
bordering on inflammatory really by by
Prime Minister Netanyahu. But at the
same time, totally understandable as
well. I mean, this is just a horrific
event. At this stage, the government
isn't responding. The Prime Minister was
asked about it. He said, "Look, this is
a time of of trying to pull the country
together and and wrap wrap our arms
around the Jewish community." He didn't
want to to answer. And the opposition
leader was asked as well and and she
similarly voiced similar sentiments
and expressed her support for the Prime
Minister. So, they're sort of playing it
down and it's it's sort of it's it's
quite a complicated one because the
there's the two lines. The one thing
about Israel and situation with Gaza and
and recognition of a Palestinian state
and the other this anti-Semitism that's
been brewing
and growing you know, following the
attacks and following Israel's response
as well. And now it is completely
conflated and so it's sort of a
complicated position. But I think what
we're likely to see is some pretty
significant measures from Australia now
to crack down on any sort of hate
speech, anti-Semitism. There are
recommendations out there and I'd be
very surprised if there's not a lot
that's done there.
Michael, David here. What do we know if
if at all about the warnings
that we've heard from the Israeli side
that they have
flagged
some of these things to the Australian
government. And obviously there will be
a time and place to and as you point
out, there hasn't been yet a response
directly to some of the comments coming
through on the Israeli side. But
specifically on the warnings themselves,
is there anything we can we know about
those?
Yeah, David. Look, there's not a lot of
information on it. Obviously all
intelligence agencies, western ones, do
work together. And we saw in 2024, we
saw a sort of a
a round of incidents.
People no one was injured killed but we
we saw you know,
arson at
Jewish shops or
at a synagogue. We saw quite a lot of
graffiti and you know, anti-Semitic
graffiti and this sort of thing. And
there was just this build up of events
that had had been going on. So, yeah,
it's it's
you know, in terms of the warnings they
got, it's unclear. What was very
interesting though was that in August,
the government said that
a couple of those incidents had actually
been
directed by Iran. The the the IRGC, the
Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps.
And Iran's ambassador was expelled over
that. What Iran had done is basically
hired according to this the evidence the
government had was that hired criminal
groups to to stage some of these
attacks. So, it's very unclear you know,
how much of this is outside influence,
how much of it is domestic. The security
agencies have said that anti-Semitism is
their top priority as I think might have
heard earlier.
But but again, you know, there's just
there's a lot of moving parts here and
and as you said, the investigation
really
the police are even saying, "Look, we
don't want to speculate until we've got
something a bit firmer to tell
everybody."
Michael, thank you. Michael Heath there
joining us out of Sydney with the
latest. And we're also following of
course developments from a mass shooting
in the US over the weekend at Brown
University. Police have detained a
person of interest after the shooting at
Brown that left two dead and nine
injured. The school has sent students
home and called off final exams,
classes, and assignments for the
semester. The shooting happened in a
classroom on what was the second day of
final exams at the Rhode Island
University, which has about 11,000
students. And for our Bloomberg
subscribers, you can turn to your
terminal for more information, get you
up to speed on the shooting. Uh this one
specifically on Australia taking place.
Uh TLIV go is the function that you run.
We have all the information there plus
the latest context, latest commentary.
Uh from multiple angles.
Also some obviously the more important
context to what's going on.
This is Bloomberg.
Let's have a look at market action as
[music] we kick off this trading week.
about 16 or so minutes uh to the opening
bell. And it's it it's a down hour story
across just about across the board to
varying degrees. KOSPI is coming off
lows even at these levels 1 and 1/2%. We
opened uh in fact quite a gap lower uh
on the KOSPI at the open. We were down
as much as two to 1/2 at one point. Um
1.3% on the Nikkei 225. Uh Asia-Pacific
as you can see 6 cents and 1%. Right. Uh
on the dollar story, it's really one
just keep in mind we're coming off three
straight weeks of dollar weakness
already. Um we are seeing somewhat of a
balance. Uh we should be getting the RMB
fix today at any point over the next
let's call it 2 minutes or so. We'll
bring you that. We'll bring you We'll
bring you the information once we have
uh that actual fix. The reason I frame
it that way is
obviously we've had a very strong
Chinese currency of late and we've seen
signs of somewhat of a sort of pullback.
Uh when it comes to these fixes more in
that in a moment. But yeah, dollar China
coming up on your screens as the future
is going into the open today. 10-year
yield in China 1.85. And just to also
mention we are going to get some
information on the economy
in about let's call it 45 minutes or
>> Yeah, that data dump is happening at the
top of the next hour. And certainly
there is going to be some questions
about how much this going to slow that
what we're seeing the fourth quarter is
going to be continue to show uh in this
set of data here as well. In terms of
your agenda, of course the data dump is
front and center. But then we also are
focusing some sectors like chips as
well. We have this Bloomberg scoop about
giving more incentive of course the chip
sector in China. Autos as well.
Regulators kind of coming through with
some pretty harsh language here in terms
of how to rein in the price wars there
in that industry. And still dealing with
the property side given the news on
China Wanka last week. You know, failing
to get enough support from bondholders.
Now Wanka is saying to improve
initiatives uh according to that filing
to the Hong Kong exchange this morning.
There is that verdict with Jimmy Lai. Uh
maybe that could happen as early as next
hour. So we have our Mimlilou there on
the ground. There is going to be a John
Lee briefing in Beijing here today.
We're still in the window for that FDI
data out of China as well.
>> Yeah, and that should be so we get the
activity numbers, the FDI. And that
should complete the set really as far as
economic numbers go. But you know, we'll
take things one at a time and we'll
obviously have focus in on the activity
numbers coming through. And I guess more
in the sort of
uh specific policy incentives along the
sector uh levels because these will
really be the things to track going into
the open today, right? So we talked
about property, chips. Uh as much as 70
billion uh in incentives there. Uh I
also want to zero in on the auto price
wars, right? Because it's really been uh
an area where you we've had a ton of
price wars. We've seen the number one
BYD for example in in in the market
really get pulled down as as a result of
that. So the strongest language yet as
Ivana is pointing out here new. So there
are the market regulator has released
new draft guidelines to stop auto makers
from pricing models too cheaply. Now we
are of course still uh in the early
stages of this ongoing exercise, but it
is a uh
a very strong signal and perhaps a right
direction if you want to eventually have
a you know the light at the end of the
tunnel of this competitive environment
we're seeing uh in the auto space.
>> Yeah, let's bring in Chetan Seth, APAC
equity strategist at Nomura to kind of
tell us a little more about kind of the
outlook for 2026. Let's focus a little
more on China first, Chetan, just given
the fact that we continue to see this
market
this dichotomy between the weak mac
macro fundamentals and still this you
know this equity market that still maybe
still has some tailwinds if you take a
look at the AI trade and the like. Are
we likely to continue to see that gap
between the economy and markets?
Actually our view is that I think in the
next few months you'll probably see the
the gap in the fundamentals and the and
the market price action to actually
narrow. So if you just step back and
look at last let's say 6 months uh the
equity markets had a terrific run even
though macro and micro corporate
earnings were somewhat weak. But I think
looking forward you'll see a big focus
from market participants on
fundamentals. And as far as fundamentals
are concerned, I think macro is still
quite challenging. We'll probably get
some support. Maybe we'll have to wait
until March, April, spring.
Uh and corporate earnings are still
quite weak. Uh but uh you know, there's
no near immediate catalyst for China
stocks. So I I think there'll be a lot
of focus on fundamentals.
Right. And so I guess the question
there, Chetan, is in the meantime in the
meantime while we wait for clarity on
the cyclical side of things, how do you
think the index trades? Let's call it
the next 3 to 6 months.
Well,
>> [clears throat]
>> globally we generally have a
constructive backdrop for stocks. I
think in that context China China might
just do
in line with global markets. For the
full year 2026 we are expecting around
uh 10% upside on MSCI China. So our
target for in 2026 is 93. So generally
our view is that I think corporate
earnings will continue to be on the
weaker side. We are actually expecting
earnings revision to stay negative. As
far as valuations are concerned, we are
expecting some bit of moderation
uh in in multiples. So if you tie these
two things together uh the index will
probably move in line with earnings. So
the good thing the good news about China
is that you know, 2025 was a was a was a
year when earnings base was quite low. I
think index earnings was around 2.5%
earnings growth rate for 2025. Next year
consensus is looking around 14-15%
earnings growth rate. We are below
consensus. So basically the upside will
be driven by
uh by earnings. Uh I think that's how we
are thinking about China equities in
2026.
Uh two sectors come to mind when we talk
about the the soft macro. Uh so you have
we talked about auto makers. The other
one would be deliveries platforms more
generally.
Uh and and I wonder what your outlook is
for both. And are those two things a
macro play?
Or is there something we we just talked
about something the government can do to
stop them from just cutting prices? And
it's not a macro play obviously
completely. But how do you look at the
dynamics for those two sectors?
I actually those two sectors are quite
important. So one of the thing one of
the reasons why we are a big I guess
you know cautious on earnings is that
both these sectors are facing a lot of
competition, right? Involution is an
issue for these sectors. If you look at
China's corporate earnings, the big
index stocks whether it's the food
delivery companies uh or even the
automotive companies, they continue to
see earnings downward. Even a stock like
Alibaba
uh which has which is obviously a
fantastic play for the the AI thematic
is still seeing earnings downward
because the traditional e-commerce
business is still struggling because of
competition. So I think the outlook of
these two sectors is quite important.
And you know, I think just before I
started uh talking, I think you were
talking about uh
the uh you know, the regulators
potentially
putting out regulations asking for these
companies to actually go slow on some of
these uh pricing. Now if that things
were thing were to materialize, I think
it'll be it'll be fantastic news for the
sector. But remains to be seen whether
we'll see some sort of anti-involution
also coming for these two sectors. Let's
say if that materialize, I think it'll
be an upside risk for earnings.
Okay. Um the the AI trade certainly has
been in question globally. I'm just
wondering in China, do you see any signs
of any sort of bubble
like territory at all at this point?
No, not really. Uh our view is that I
think the fundamentals for uh the for
the AI tech sector is still quite
constructive. That's our house view.
Uh you know, one of the things about AI
as a as a thematic is that supply is
still constrained. And so long as supply
is constrained, we don't think so that
you know, there are bubble concerns. So
I I think you know, you could apply the
same logic to China as well. The thing
is that even if US uh AI thematic were
to roll over, the thing with Chinese
companies is that they are still geared
on lever to the domestic China growth
story where I think the push for CAPEX
in my view will continue. So our view is
that there's no there's no bubble. Can
we get towards a bubble level? We can.
But I think that's one area uh investors
should be focused on. And there are many
companies in China that one could
potentially play for as far as the AI
thematic is concerned.
Chetan
Seth, about more to discuss there in
terms of the the broader outlook for the
region. Chetan Seth will be joining us
in a couple of minutes. He's with Nomura
there of course. Uh we're just getting
the latest lines here coming through um
out of Australia. If Ivana what are you
looking at here?
>> Yeah, so we're we're hearing from the
New South Wales police commissioner.
He's speaking at this briefing here this
morning and talking a little bit more
about this terrorist attack. And he says
the 24-year-old in hospital may face
criminal charges. This is of course from
what has been reported. The father and
son that were involved in this shooting.
So the 24-year-old remains in the
hospital and will face may face criminal
charges according to the police
department. But that is the latest
coming through. We'll bring you more
coming up. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Your pre-market home call just opening
up here. We're already seeing 1%
declines in the Hang Seng here today. It
could be largely driven to what we're
seeing in Wanka here. So we're down
another 5 and 1/2% for the property
developer. And this is of course after
failing to get enough support from
bondholders for that bond payment
extension. So that is leading some of
these property names lower here this
morning. The company has talked about
improving initiatives. They're studying
improved initiatives after of course
that failed support
obtaining that support there. So that's
the latest when it comes to the property
side of things. New home prices mind you
also come in about 5 minutes time. And
we're also focusing on the auto sector
Dave. I'm just giving you some of the
tough regulations that we heard over the
weekend.
>> Yeah, the strongest language yet that
they are
let's call it upping the ante on
anti-involution there. So
well the headline here is plans around
tougher regulations targeting the price
war. Now specifically what that means is
new rules
are perhaps being mulled and there are
public discussions I believe here in
terms of the consultation period on what
that might mean. So price compliance
requirements for vehicle and parts
production to
um
uh sales practices automakers will face
significant legal risks if if they set
sale prices below production costs. So
there might be a limit to which they can
cut prices.
>> Yeah, there's a good story in the
terminal talks about what what's going
on in Thailand where you actually are
seeing that price competition quite
pronounced from some of these Chinese
automakers. But they're trying to get
rid of inventory by having slashing
prices at some point even lower than
production costs and the like. So that
certainly is one focus in this market
here today. Of course we're still
waiting for that data dump that's
happening in about
34 minutes or so here. We have of course
Morgan Stanley's [music] Robin Xing to
come through to digest and help us kind
of
see through the [music] signals there as
well. But here are some of the estimates
that we're expecting. Still expecting a
bit of a slowdown there when it comes to
the consumption side of things. This is
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Okay, we'll take you [music] straight
back here. So there is
one ongoing press briefing taking
[music] place um out of New South Wales
specifically and I'll mention
um that the the Prime Minister is also
set to hold a press briefing. It's
unclear whether it's the same uh in
about 15 minutes from now. Let's go back
to the here and now though. What we've
heard so far there is from the police a
few minutes back that the 24-year-old in
the hospital may face criminal charges
and that we're also hearing from the
Premier of New South Wales speaking at
the briefing. Uh one comment that's come
through so far. It might be time
to change the gun laws. That's no
context still given that no specifics
but just to bring that to your
attention. So in about 15 minutes from
now we are set to hear
from the Aussie Prime Minister uh in
about in a yeah 12:45 local time. That's
of course in Sydney. That's 9:45 if
you're watching out of Hong Kong,
Beijing and Singapore.
>> Yeah, we will continue to of course this
coverage here when it comes to this
tragedy. We'll have to take a step back
of course and and focus on what's been
going on right now which is that market
open in China. So CSI 300 still under a
bit of pressure here today. We're down
about 6/10 of 1% for for Shanghai
Composite as well as a CSI 300.
Interesting enough you're you're seeing
copper prices actually coming off given
the record run that we've seen for the
metal. We're down about 1 and 1/2% here
this morning. And we're watching of
course the chip plays, right? So
Capricorn is down about 1 and 1/2% or
more. Interesting enough there was a
good story about you know this you know
the incentives that they're giving to
some of these domestic chip players
which may actually influence some of
these stocks here today. But you're not
quite seeing that for Capricorn. Could
be just kind of following the sort of
downtrend that we're seeing among some
of the chip plays AI plays globally and
regionally here today as well. You take
a look at how the Hong Kong open is
looking like today. Of course as we
count down to the new home price data
that just came through here. Uh Dave
maybe we should break that first before
we even get to even the market open.
>> Yes, I'm just looking at the numbers now
just so I can give proper context to
this, right? So
uh let's start with new home prices
month and month we're down let's call it
0.4%. So a
not as big a drop as the one we saw back
in October which was closer to about
half of 1%. Now keep in mind of course
this is across
a very long list of cities. It's an
aggregate number. It's a month and
month. It's also new home
sales. So it's perhaps not as indicative
as what's happening
more granularly
you know city to city. But that is just
to say it does look slightly better
looking at how you compare this current
drop to the drop that we had back in
October. Now used home prices are down
by as much as what we had in October
month and month. Let's call it 0.7%
0.6%. So
all things equal
maybe slightly better. But again the
broader view here is if you take a step
back it's really still
continuous declines in the housing
market which I now believe are
stretching well over 2 years now
in terms of month and month drop in
prices there. Yep. And of course we'll
continue to track what happens with
Wanka the property developers plan to
hold a second bondholder meeting on
Thursday. And that's after it failed to
obtain support for its plan to delay
paying a $283 million note that's due
that was due on Monday. Let's get bring
in our China credit reporter Trista
Shigi Lo. She joins us now.
What what more can they do now?
Yeah, so I think Wanka will try to
propose improve the terms they previous
propose and try to present the new
proposal and discuss the plans with
bondholder on December 18th meeting and
try to win the support from bondholder
because any proposed change need to win
at least 90% of approval. So for the
last you know voting they failed to win
over 19% approval from any of those
three proposals. So right now is their
latest effort trying to trying to avert
a default. Yeah, it you know it's it's
important to note that today is actually
when December 15th is today, right? So
that's today's actually when that bond
was supposed to mature. Now what is this
second bondholder meeting that is in 3
days time? Is it about the current bond
or is this about the second bond at the
end of this month? It's about the
current bond.
>> Okay. Because that's the most urgent one
they need to deal with, right? Because
if they cannot you know pay or cannot
find other solution after the 5-day
grace period
bondholder can call default. So that's
the urgent task they need to deal with
at the moment. Okay, we don't know
anything else about the the one that's
later this month. Oh not yet. They they
will hold another meeting for dealing
with that one. But that's like you know
less urgent than the current one. Okay,
that it's important context because
we're talking about two separate bonds
and I think that's really important to
distinguish that today is about the
initial one that kicked things off with
a story of late. Okay, Trista thank you.
Trista Lo there our China credit
reporter. Let's have a look at what this
week is going to be like as far as macro
and economic numbers are concerned. So
we'll start things off of course in the
next hour. We have activity numbers
coming through out of mainland China.
We'll have more of that in a moment. As
far as we have US CPI coming out of the
US. You have rate decisions in Southeast
Asia, Thailand and also Indonesia. And
the one of course is the BOJ the rate
decision. We're counting down to that.
You have the Tankan survey coming out
supportive really of a
if you think about it a rate hike uh
before we wrap up 2025. We'll be on top
of the story there of course going into
these major items on this agenda. Still
with us for some final thoughts going
into 2026 Chetan Seth Asia Pacific
equity strategist at at Nomura. Chetan
before we brought in the view on Asia
Pacific just to close the loop on the
greater China story. I I noticed
MSCI Hong Kong you have an underweight
there. Just just help us understand that
where where sort of the Hong Kong cohort
belongs in in your universe.
So remember MSCI Hong Kong is
essentially the index of domestic Hong
Kong stocks. It's usually the companies
some
property developers Macau gaming stocks.
So our general preference is China MSCI
China which is by the way index of Hong
Kong stocks as well as A-shares and some
some of these ADRs. Generally our
thought process on Hong Kong is that if
you want to be in Hong Kong MSCI Hong
Kong the best plays are either your
exchange operators because of the
ongoing strong liquidity in the stock
market and also this ongoing impetus
on capital market activity. So IPOs has
has been has been a hot theme in Hong
Kong. And then you also have a few
insurers which are part of the index,
right? So I think that's how we are
playing Hong Kong. And as you can see
from our portfolio model portfolio we
have a couple of names there. But
generally our preference is
you know the domestic China focused
stocks which are part of MSCI China.
You're also overweight in terms of
allocations, Korea. You say the strong
earnings growth story there and India as
as you quote here, the best diversifier
against any risk of unwinding of crowded
tech trades. Can you walk us through the
thinking behind those two markets now?
Wait, first of all, the thinking is that
at least our view is that maybe first
quarter, second quarter, I think the AI
thematic trade will continue.
Of course, we understand valuations and
positioning is very strange
and I think you know, I mean, if you
just look at price action from Thursday,
Friday from from the US markets, you
know, it seems like investors are really
on the edge. You see one Bloomberg
headline cross our terminals and Nasdaq
crashes.
So, I think just tells you that people
are on the edge and therefore our key
thematic theme for 2026 is that of
discipline and balance. So, we think you
should stay with the AI thematic plays
which you can find in Korea, parts of
Taiwan, but at the same time, diversify
your portfolios and have some laggards.
For us, the biggest diversifier in
portfolios would be India. This is a
market which has underperformed in 25,
but we think growth from here will see a
cyclical recovery. Corporate earnings
should also start stabilizing. We'll
probably start seeing earnings
start to get better and then relative
valuations of India in the in the
regional context are quite
quite attractive now. The market used to
trade at almost 100% premium to AEJ.
Now, it's trading around 50-55%.
So, it's kind of mean reverted. So,
India we see as a diversifier in in
portfolios. You know, policy is clearly
supportive, but Korea is your biggest AI
leverage play in the region. Strong
earnings growth rate and beyond AI, I
mean, there are many other themes in the
in the Korean market one could find
defense, electric transformers,
K entertainment, K beauty.
You know, many of these sectors will
deliver higher earnings growth rate in
26. So, we do like Korea and this is our
you know, key market at least into the
early part of 26.
Yeah, Chetan, if you could talk a little
bit more about that because the type of
year Korea has had is
statistical in aberration, right? So,
there's almost no playbook that will
inform you how best to play the well,
not just the index, the rotation within
that going into next year. It's
something that's really new like AI. So,
a very simple question for you. When you
look at Korea,
is there a rotation within that market
that you think is appropriate or do I
continue to lean into into the winners
there?
Yeah. So, look, this for 26, consensus
right now is looking at 38% growth rate.
Actually, if you look at our bottom-up
numbers from Nomura analysts, we are
even ahead of consensus.
Even if we expect some sort of
moderation multiples, remember multiples
have to an extent already priced in this
strong earnings recovery. I think the
index will most likely grow into these
earnings and with that index means some
of these memory companies will grow into
these earnings. So, I think we we do
like that space.
Also, the other thing we have to
remember is last year was horrible for
Korea equities. I think we were down
around 24% in dollar terms. So, you
know, we you know, part of those 80%
gains we've seen year to date are coming
off from just just just by way of mean
reversion. So, I think as long as
earnings come through, we are right with
our call that fundamentals will remain
strong. I think Korea will remain quite
an attractive market at least in the
first part of 26, but second half is
much trickier because our sense is that
sometime in 26, I think there will be
a rotation in the market. I think people
will start looking at laggards. Now,
it's very difficult to time and call it
now
and that's why, you know, our strategy
is to have some underperformers
or diversifiers in portfolios. So, for
example, we picked India and we've also
picked Indonesia, by the way.
Mhm. Oh, tell us why. Indonesia?
Well, Indonesia story is very simple.
You know, I've I've looked at markets
for last 10-15 years. At least in the
last few years, never seen any I've
never seen so much negativity from both
the sell side and the buy side of
Indonesia. The currency was the second
worst performer a year to date.
Indonesian MSCI Indonesia equities are
the worst performing. It seems to me
risk reward is quite attractive. The
only challenge is there's no immediate
near-term catalyst, but maybe second
quarter things can
you know, start start looking better.
Just like India, there has been a lot of
policy support also in Indonesia. So,
we've seen BI cut rates. We've also seen
injection of banking sector liquidity
and I think you know, some of the
earlier concerns around the sovereign
wealth fund and you know, the change in
in the finance minister, I think those
concerns will also in my view start to
dissipate in the next few weeks and
months and I think that will just create
a better backdrop for Indonesian stocks.
So, I think risk reward for Indonesia is
quite attractive, but I do acknowledge
maybe immediate near-term there's no
positive catalyst. So, we have to be a
bit patient on Indonesia.
Yeah, back to the India call, too. I
mean, a lot of I We're hearing a lot of
your peers say that this is sort of the
diversifier play of the AI trade.
What do you think is going to be what
drives this equity market? Is it mostly
going to be a very domestic sort of
plays in India?
Well, I think it will be just earnings.
To be honest, multiples for India still
quite elevated.
The India market is trading around 22
times MSCI India. So, you can't say it's
cheap, but earnings will be double digit
most likely double digit in 26. I think
consensus around 15-16%. Even if you
shave, let's say, 1-2 percentage points
from that, you'll probably see 13-14%
earnings growth rate for the market. You
assume a little bit more moderation in
multiples, I think you can get 10-11%
price returns for for India. But yeah,
it's largely going to be domestic. The
other thing we have to
I think one positive
catalyst which could trigger a
reallocation of flows into India is a
potential deal trade deal between US and
India. So, one of the challenges for
India equities and even India financial
assets is has been that
there's no trade deal between US and
India. So, rupee is falling. Foreign
investors are continuing to sell India
stocks. So, if we do see some positive
action there, I think it would just
trigger a change in narrative and change
in sentiment and that potentially could
be a positive catalyst for the equity
market as well.
Chetan, final one on
this year's been a really good one for
equity markets if you just take a look
at
how most benchmarks have done. Going
into next year, it seems we won't get
the tailwinds coming through out of,
let's call it, looser policy. It's
looking like we're towards the end of
the cutting cycle.
Um
I mean, it's it's 50/50 on the dollar
when you look at some of these calls
right now.
What what what are your macro
assumptions in terms of what, you know,
the environment will be like for for for
Asian equities next year?
So, we are expecting global growth to be
resilient. In fact, for US, our US team
is calling for a slight acceleration is
in US GDP growth rate in 2026. So, I
think our number is 2.4% real GDP growth
rate. We're also expecting Fed to cut
rates. We are expecting two more rate
cuts in the second half of
next year. So, rate cuts amid resilient
US economy is not a bad outcome for
stocks. As far as US-China
relations are concerned, my base case is
at least some relative stability at
least in the next few months. Maybe
before midterms, maybe things might
change. So, that's also not a not a bad
bad backdrop. And in Asia, some of the,
you know,
laggard equity markets, so whether it's
Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand, India,
the central banks in those countries
will still cut rates. That's our view. I
think North Asia North Asian central
banks probably will not need to cut
rates because growth is quite resilient.
North Asia, basically Korea, Taiwan. I
think China will probably
see deliver a rate cut sometime in in
26. So, I think policy in our part of
the still still still quite mixed and
that's not a bad outcome for stocks. I
think the issue is just valuations. And
in fact, in our
assumptions, we are expecting some bit
of moderation in multiples, but we are
still expecting stocks to grind higher
in line with strong earnings growth rate
in 26.
Chetan, thank you so much. Chetan Seth,
their Asia-Pacific equity strategist at
Nomura, joining us out of Singapore this
morning. Just very quickly before we
take a very short break, our eyes are
still on Vanke, the failed vote. Of
course, that took place there. So, the
equity
the A shares are down as we were down as
much as 5-6%. We're a little off highs
right now. It's the bond that's in
question.
The specific one, 3.98% yuan bond has
been halted because of these triggers,
massive price plunge there. So, I would
assume this resumes trade in a couple of
minutes once we get through that. More
on that plus others in a moment. This is
the China show.
>> [music]
>> The former Hong Kong media mogul, Jimmy
Lai, faces a verdict later on today in a
landmark national security trial. A
decision that will help define the
limits of free speech here in the city.
Let's bring in Miman Lo, our China
correspondent. She joins us now outside
that court. Miman, bring us up to speed
on what's expected today.
Yeah, we're 10 minutes away from when
that ruling will be handed down. Jimmy
Lai is being charged with two counts of
conspiracy to collude with foreign
forces and one count of publishing
seditious material. Now, if convicted,
he could face up to life in prison. So,
we are expecting the verdict to be
handed down in about 10 minutes time,
but the sentencing could be handed down
at a later date. And certainly over here
where I am, there is there are many
domestic and international media
outlets. This case is being closely
scrutinized as a test of the city's
judicial independence because Jimmy
Lai's case is one of the highest profile
cases that has been charged under the
national security law so far.
And it's
the the the trial has been presided been
presided over three judges handpicked by
the chief executive John Lee. Jimmy Lai
wasn't allowed to hire a British lawyer
of his choice after Beijing intervened
and gave the power to bar any such
foreign lawyers to uh chief executive
John Lee. And the secretary of justice
also ordered this trial to be heard
without a a jury as well, citing the
involvement of foreign forces. And
international observers have been
pointing to this case as an example of
how Beijing is not fulfilling its pledge
to allow the civil liberties of Hong
Kong to remain unchanged for at least 50
years after the handover to Beijing in
1997.
Minnie Minnie, thank you. Minnie Minnie
Low there.
Uh she will bring us the latest once we
have more information. Of course, once
we have the verdict the Jimmy Lai
verdict of course speaking. Uh really
more on this coming through here on
Bloomberg Television. We'll be speaking
with a fellow at the center for Asian
Law at Georgetown University. You can
catch that interview coming up on
Insight at the Times coming up. There we
go on your screens with Eric Lai 10:30
p.m. if you're watching of Hong Kong,
Beijing or Singapore. Uh we'll leave you
with a glance at markets.
We'll take a short break. See you on the
other side of See you on the other side
of it. This is Bloomberg.
Right, welcome back. So, in about just
under 10 minutes we should be getting
the activity numbers for November. The
estimates [music] are in yellow on your
screens. That's your benchmark for this
specific set of numbers. We're coming
off of course the wipe. Uh
just to preface of course, we're also
just coming through. So, this would
almost complete the the set of economic
numbers. Uh the credit numbers came out
on Friday. We get this. We did get just
get the housing price numbers which were
generally in line with estimates. In
fact, slightly better on the
month-on-month and new home prices.
Better in a sense that they weren't
falling as much as we saw in October.
Uh and yeah, we'll see a bit of a pick
up here going into industrial production
5% but still of course the the property
story continues to play out in a macro
level. On a micro level we talk about
Vanke as perhaps the the most indicative
one high profile of late. Jobless rate
in line
at 5.1%. Dollar China of course as a
macro story is one that is a stronger
currency of of late. Yeah, seems like
there is going to be the same sort of
tail, right? Where you're seeing slower
growth in consumption that's expected.
Maybe even a deeper decline when it
comes to the whole investment side of
things here which is a key concern
among a lot of the economists that we
talk about. This collapse that we've
been seeing and when it comes to CapEx.
Also when it comes to industrial
production though, that might still be
the the the bright spot, right? All of
the exports number. Yeah, it it really
could show the resilience that we've
been seeing when it comes to the export
side of things here. But certainly that
does lead to the more industrial
overcapacity issue as well. So,
certainly there's going to be a lot to
talk about with Robin Xing from Morgan
Stanley. He's going to be coming on in
about 7 minutes time to break down the
data for us as well. In terms of what
we're watching in markets here today,
there is a bit of a sell-off when it
comes to of course that whole AI trade.
Risk assets are doing this in particular
when it comes to the chips here. So,
even some of these domestic plays in
China which usually do actually benefit
from any sort of global AI sell-off is
actually also falling as well here
today. So, and that's despite that
Bloomberg scoop about China set to prep
about 70 billion dollars for the chip
sector incentives package as well. So,
you are seeing the likes of Hua Hong
Semi down some 4% today. Yeah, and Wuxi
Wuxi of course which was the big listing
of late and it's still down. But I mean
when you compare that the IPO price is
certainly at much higher levels.
We're also looking at auto stocks. So,
we have two stories on the Bloomberg
today and it they are related in in many
ways. So, China's bringing its EV price
war to Thailand dangling 38% discounts.
And what you have on shore is perhaps
authorities not wanting to see what's
happening there. So, Chinese car maker
stocks are in focus given the tougher
regulations could be in the offing and
as far as rules and legal ramifications
for these auto makers if if they sell
some of these prices below production
price. Baby baby related stocks are in
focus as well given the plans to expand
the insurance program
around birth insurance, things that
cover more costs related to childbirth.
So, we'll see what happens here. And we
are getting there. Moving against the
grain and consumption stocks in focus
are coming up on your screens given all
the policy pronouncements of late. There
we go. We have more plans of more
financial support. What does this all
mean for the broader consumption story?
We'll get more analysis of course in the
next hour of the China show. Yep, so
that data dump is going to be front and
center about 6 minutes time. We're also
focusing of course with more with Morgan
Stanley's chief China economist [music]
Robin Xing and bring you the latest when
it comes to that Sydney shooting in
Bondi Beach as well. You're watching the
China show.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at the CSI 300. A half [music] hour
to the session looks like we are
basically regaining some momentum here
and now we've erased some of the losses
from the last couple of 30 minutes or
so. So, that ahead of course of that
data dump in terms of the November
activity data that's set to be unveiled
just moments from now. But the estimates
are expecting for a further slowdown
when it comes to the consumption side of
things. Also when it comes to investment
which continues to be on the decline.
Industrial production might be that
bright spot here today just given what
we've been seeing in terms of exports
and the resilience around shipments and
the like. So, that certainly is going to
be maybe one key focus here. But this on
the back of what we saw in terms of the
new home price data that came out about
30 minutes ago. Still in contraction but
we are seeing maybe a narrower decline
when it comes to new home prices. And
here we go. That data just dumping on
your terminal screens here this morning
and retail sales. This is a weak print.
1.3%
in terms of year-on-year. The estimate
was for 2.9% print. So, that is quite a
gap there in terms of the estimates and
the actual numbers. And 4% for
year-to-date numbers for retail sales.
That's also softer than expected.
Industrial production is still also
weaker than expected though. 4.8%. The
estimate was for a 5% print here.
6% when it comes to year-to-date which
is in line.
Fixed asset investment, there you go.
We're seeing more contraction here. 2.6%
in terms of fixed asset investment. A
fall there. And that is a bigger fall
than what we saw on the previous month
as well. The jobless rate remains the
same 5.1%. We're watching of course the
property investment side of things. That
continues to be a very very negative
story. We're down 15.9%
when it comes to property investment.
So, it seems like just from a glance
this is missing
the median estimate of of really what
we've been expecting from economists
there. So, certainly that is in some
ways there a bit of a disappointment.
Let's bring in Robin Xing chief China
economist here at Morgan Stanley to tell
us a little bit more about your takeaway
from these numbers, Robin. It's soft.
Fourth quarter is tracking at probably
in real terms 4.5% below the third
quarter's 4.8. But what matters more for
investors is nominal GDP growth which is
tracking at very subdued level of below
4% given these numbers you mentioned. I
think consumption is the biggest
concern. Retail sales are slowing
because the trading effects are
diminishing
and also property is a big drag. And the
inventories high, broader price
declines, fragile confidence in
property.
Um however, you can see policy in cruise
control at this moment.
>> Yes. What do you think there's a lack of
urgency?
I would say for the full year
they achieved 5% and from the CWC the
work conference, the key message is to
continue to focus on advanced
manufacturing on tech innovation. So,
looks like for next year that's the key
message. There is a small nudge to
domestic demand but it's probably not
enough.
So, how how are you looking at 2026 now?
Is it going to be much challenging given
the fact that you say your 5% is pretty
attainable for 2025?
So, we are running at 4.8% in real
growth for 2026 and 4.1% in nominal
growth. That's our expectation. It's
time at and again it's below consensus
on nominal GDP. So, it's another year of
slow burn for reflation in China. Yeah.
And the reason is if you look at the
policy makers fiscal envelope is likely
to remain flat versus 2025. I mean, of
course they may allocate a little bit
more from that flat deficit to something
like domestic demand, consumption but
it's still quite modest pace. And on
property, the key message here is
guardrails over bailouts, right? So far
all this evidence showed they are less
interested in a big rescue plan. Yeah.
Be it inventory purchase or
nationalizing developers. More likely,
if the stress deepens, they can provide
a little bit
subsidy on mortgages. All these are
showing for next year policy will remain
reactive and small.
The consumption side is still as you
mentioned, I mean that's quite a miss,
right? For 1.3% for retail sales.
There there is some chatter I guess from
the work economic conference about
optimizing the trade in programs. What
would that entail? Do you think that
would mean Beijing is willing to
increase funding or just kind of keep
things from slowing down further?
Well, you are right. There is a lot of a
precautionary saving due to this
incomplete social safety net in China.
So to get consumption back on a firmer
footing, they need three things.
Cyclically, they can do trade in
programs, widening the coverage of
category of goods. Services? Exactly.
Probably some services vouchers. But
meanwhile, they have to stabilize
housing sector. So again, that subsidy
on mortgage interest rates which your
colleagues reported about three weeks
ago. How effective would that be? I
think it's going to be a stabilizer.
It's not going to reflating prices that
much because it depends on the duration,
the magnitude and how they communicate
this subsidy. But if they do it, at
least it's going to make the cycle
smoother, probably shortening the
painful period of inventory digestion.
But the last but not least,
social welfare. We mentioned the
incomplete social safety net. That's the
key reason why consumers, even farmers,
migrant workers are saving not spending.
So they have to provide that injection
from central government of budget to
farmers and the migrant workers of
social welfare accounts. So if they
deliver all three things, I think it's
going to anchor a reflation and a
rebalancing China.
What about in terms of investment? You
you've
written a lot about this, right? The
declines that we've been seeing. What
more do you think they can do to revive
investment without really putting that
fiscal burden on local governments?
In a more practical policy making
framework, I think they will use
investment as the near term anchor for
growth.
Consumption well, they will definitely
deliver a little bit more, but in near
term Q1, Q2, they will front load the
local special bond issues.
With a tilt into infrastructure like
underground pipelines. They call it
urban renewal programs, green capex, as
well as AI data center. So I do think
more public capex is probably the near
term anchor for policy makers to achieve
the 5% target for next year. But over
the medium term, they need to rebalance
towards consumption. So again, it's back
to all these tools we are expecting on
the consumer side. Be it services
vouchers, Yeah. um this stabilization of
housing sector plus social welfare
injection.
The consumption side, I mean you're
seeing
regulators are a bit bit more, I guess
you could say harsher in terms of their
you know, how these auto makers for
example are are pricing their vehicles,
right? We heard from the regulator over
the weekend about, you know, now there's
going to be legal consequences if you
price your cars below production cost
and the like. But up until now, we
really haven't seen some of these, you
know, car companies really adhere to
this sort of anti-involution campaign.
And we've seen that, right? Whether it's
food delivery, autos that continue to be
quite weak.
Should we expect any sort of change when
it comes to anti-involution next year?
Beyond just what we see in the material
side of things. I think that's where
we're seeing most of the supply cuts and
the like, but where else can we see that
anti-involution campaign take effect?
Well, I think the deep rooted reason for
involution in China is there has been
this supply centric business model and
policy framework over the last two
decades. Too much focus on supply,
production, investment, too little focus
on consumption, services and rewarding
household well-beings.
Now that's changing, but in a very
subtle way. So over the weekend, there
are so many official media interpreting
the CWC. And the one of them mentioned
they do want to invest more in people,
people first investment in social
welfare, education, health care. And if
they can boost the domestic demand with
that kind of a social welfare reform,
with enough demand, then you don't have
to do all these cut throating, you know,
price competition. So demand stimulus is
the key here. They can't just do
anti-involution with some supply side
consolidation.
It seems like their their approach,
policy makers, is
in terms of boosting spending is really
unlocking that household wealth as you
mentioned. So it, you know, in their
interpretation, it's not a lack of
spending power.
Do you agree with that sort of approach
here or do you is there really a need to
really increase household wealth? I
think yes and no.
The Chinese household is saving 35% of
their income. That's like the highest
saving rate globally. And the one of the
reason is the lack of complete social
safety net. So covering migrant workers
and farmers, poor people with social
benefits, that's going to unlock some
consumption potential. Yeah. But
meanwhile,
is it also because China is in so called
a K-shaped recovery? You know, K-shaped
is so popular Yes. among describing
global economy.
I doubt because the thing is K-shaped
means
the cake is still growing, right?
It's just that you didn't get a fair
cut.
But if you look at the nominal GDP
growth in China, it's quite subdued.
It's below 4%. So even the broader
economy was not growing as it was, as
it's supposed to be. So it's not just
the K-shaped.
I think it is due to this very subdued
nominal growth. They have to focus on
lifting nominal growth by showing up
consumers with social welfare reform,
with some services vouchers and
stabilizing the housing sector. That's
my New Year's resolution. The three
things, stabilizing housing sector with
mortgage subsidy, providing broad based
vouchers for consumers on services
sector and also try to inject more
social welfare benefits for farmers. And
should we expect the the currency to
stay strong too in ways of boosting
imports or even domestic demand in some
way? I mean, that's the part I'm least
worried about. The Chinese exports
remain very competitive even with all
these noises about geopolitics, EU or
Mexico tariffs. We think that just make
these supply chain
longer, messier rather than making it
broken because you can see rerouting,
you can see the US are importing more
and more for from other exporters, but
these exporters are importing from
China. These high value added components
and the parts are all still from China.
Um so we are less worried about the
China's exports. It's going to be the
bright spot, but relying on advanced
manufacturing and exports alone do not
solve China's domestic deflation
problem. So they still have to deliver
the rebalance and the reflation at home.
Right.
Uh Robin, we'll be tracking of course
your New Year's resolutions of course
and your wish list for 2026. Robin Xing
there, Morgan Stanley, a chief China
economist joining us here
on the shows. And of course, subscribers
can also turn to the terminal for more
on of course these economic numbers and
they're already writing quite a bit. In
particular when it comes to the retail
sales growth, I think that was the
biggest disappointment. The weakest
print we've seen since COVID while
investment also slumped further as well.
T live go is where to go for your
functions and of course [music] latest
updates. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> A former Hong Kong media mogul, Jimmy
Lai, faces a [music] verdict in a
landmark national security trial anytime
now. Let's bring in Minnie Lo, our China
correspondent. She joins us live outside
the court on
we believe this verdict is being read
out right now, Minnie.
That's right. Our colleague is inside
the courtroom. We know that the judge,
Esther Toh, had mentioned that there
should be no disturbance in the
courtroom. Anyone causing disturbance
will be asked to leave. And the total
verdict is about over 850 pages long.
The judges are only going to read the
concluding remarks. We're still waiting
to hear more details. The verdict is has
not been confirmed yet, so we're waiting
for that. But Jimmy Lai has been charged
with two counts of conspiracy to collude
with foreign forces and one count of
publishing seditious material. If he is
convicted of colluding with foreign
forces, he could face up to life in
prison. We expect the sentencing to be
handed down on a separate day. And of
course, this is being closely watched as
a landmark national security trial, as a
test of the city's judicial independence
given that Chief Executive John Lee had
handpicked the three judges that are
presiding over this trial that is being
heard without a jury as well.
And Minnie, talk us a little bit more.
You mentioned a little bit about the
significance of this case. Potentially
could be a barometer of freedom of
speech, judicial independence in this
city. Also, it is a test of of really,
you know, China's diplomatic ties as
well. What are Western governments and
what are they saying about this trial?
Yeah, it's been closely watched and of
course, there has been strong reaction
from the likes of the US and the UK. US
President Donald Trump said that he
raised this issue of Jimmy Lai's trial
to President Xi when the two men met in
South Korea in October. The UK Prime
Minister Keir Starmer also said that
this is a priority of this
administration to make sure to secure
Jimmy Lai's release. And one of the
points that international organizations
has been highlighting is his
deteriorating health because his family
said that he suffers from heart
palpitation and international
organizations are calling for Jimmy Lai
to be released on medical grounds
because he's been taken into custody
since December of 2020. He's been in
solitary confinement for close to 5
years now.
Uh and of course we'll be watching this
very closely. Um and as you said, it's
also a test of judicial independence
because Jimmy Lai wasn't allowed to hire
a British lawyer of his choice. Beijing
has intervened and given Chief Executive
John Lee the power to bar any foreign
lawyers from this case. Uh and the case
is being heard without a jury as well.
Uh the authorities cited the involvement
of foreign forces. Beijing so far has
said that other countries should not be
meddling in China's internal affairs and
has said that the national security
trial is fair, it treats everybody
equally, uh and it it shouldn't be
something that other countries are
intervening on.
Okay, can you walk us through a little
bit more of the timeline
that could be put forward here?
Obviously, we're going to hear the
verdict anytime soon.
Uh and the results of that. What what
comes next after that that we need to
watch out for?
Yeah, so uh after this we will be
waiting for the sentencing which will be
given at a later date.
Uh and after that,
uh it will really depends, right?
Because we know that this case is in
some ways potentially going to be part
of the bargaining chip in broader
US-China trade talks. And we know that
Xi and President Trump
uh are going to meet potentially in
April of next year. And it will be
interesting to see whether this would
come up as part of
uh sort of a bargaining chip in exchange
for perhaps lower tariffs.
Uh and at some point later after the
verdict and the sentence has been handed
down, whether or not Jimmy Lai will be
able to get a suspended sentence on
medical grounds. But just to give you a
little bit more background about this
case, after the imposition of the
national security law back in June of
2020, uh Jimmy Lai was arrested in
August. And he's being accused of
calling for sanctions on Hong Kong on
China. And his foreign contacts is under
scrutiny because Jimmy Lai met with then
uh US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and
then US Vice President Mike Pence as
well. And of course he's the founder of
Apple Daily which is a pro-democracy
newspaper that often urges its readers
to take to the streets. And so
prosecutors have been pointing to that,
to his online broadcasts, to his
articles as evidence of his intent to
collude with foreign forces. Although as
part of Jimmy Lai's defense, he said
that yes, he called for sanctions but
before the imposition of the national
security law and not after. And so that
has been a case of uh a point of focus
in this trial.
And then this coming in against some
news that we heard in terms of the the
Hong Kong Democratic Party that
dissolved
uh after three decades of of operations.
Tell me a little bit more about that.
Yes, of course this case is coming at a
very delicate time for Hong Kong, right?
It's gone through uh so many changes
after the imposition of the national
security law. We have seen dozens of
civil society groups being forced to
shut down. And just over the weekend,
the Democratic Party had voted to
dissolve itself. Uh this was mentioned
by the former chairwoman Emily Lau on
Facebook over the weekend. It's been a
party that's been in operation since
1994. It's been a key opposition party
that has been very outspoken in pushing
Beijing aggressively for democratic
reforms, in particular calling for a
universal suffrage. And so this marks
the end of that political party. And we
just concluded the Legislative Council
election a week ago as well with the
second lowest turnout that Hong Kong has
seen. And of course this is coming as
there has been a lot of reform to the
electoral system with the government
mandating only patriots to run in the
elections. And of course we also just uh
seen that fire, right? One of the most
deadly fire that Hong Kong has
experienced in decades killing 160
people. And soon after the fire,
uh authorities also warned individuals
against using that fire as a pretext to
incite chaos in Hong Kong. So certainly
there has been a sense of caution in
this courthouse when I was trying to
speak to supporters who queued here
overnight to go into the courtroom. Not
many of them were willing to speak to
the media.
Minmin, thank you. Our China
correspondent Minmin Loh there. Of
course we'll be speaking uh with more on
this and covering of course this trial
with Jimmy Lai with Georgetown Center
for Asian Law about the verdict and how
that could impact [music] press freedoms
in Hong Kong. Eric Lai is going to be
joining us there from Georgetown.
[music]
And that's going to be happening on the
times on your screen. This is Bloomberg.
Tokyo Gas Gas, I should say, Japan's
biggest distributor of fuel plans to
invest in US downstream assets to lift
earnings and reinforce the last leg of
its energy supply chain. Speaking to
Bloomberg, President and CEO Shinichi
Sasayama says the investment will go
towards developing and making the
company's shale gas assets profitable.
We are currently investing mainly in
shale gas projects in East Texas.
Our priority for the next midterm period
is to ensure solid revenue from these
existing investments.
As for whether we'll further increase
our asset holdings, we will assess that
carefully based on conditions. While
ensuring solid returns from our upstream
operations, we also want to invest in
mid and downstream businesses to build
out our portfolio. We've already made
investments in midstream, downstream
areas such as marketing and trading. And
we intend to raise its profitability.
For downstream, we're also considering
opportunities in things like LNG
liquefaction plants, export terminals,
and the energy services sector.
I know that you've been reviewing buying
potentially from the
LNG project in Alaska. Where are you at
in that evaluation?
Alaska has the advantage of being
geographically close to Japan. And LNG
can be shipped without passing through
geopolitical choke points, which is a
major benefit.
However, pricing and other terms are
still unclear. So further examination
will be necessary.
When can we expect an announcement?
We only just signed the letter of intent
expressing our interest. The pricing and
other terms will eventually be presented
by the other party. Since next step
depends on the other party's timing,
it's difficult for me to say at this
point when that will be. Tokyo Gas
maintains that Russian imports of gas
are important for the energy supply of
Japan. And yet we continue to see
international pressure to stop these
purchases.
Will you need to reassess?
We don't see any urgent need at this
point to review our position in the
short term. Sakhalin Gas continues to
contribute to Japan's stable supply. So
any final decision will be made in
consultation with the Japanese
government.
What sort of conversations are you
having with the government on future
purchases of Russian gas? And also
perhaps can you tell us a little bit
more about your diversification strategy
as well?
We are not fully aware of any details to
the discussions taking place within the
Japanese government. But we understand
that the government recognizes Sakhalin
Gas as an important energy source that
contributes to Japan's stable supply.
We have long pursued three pillars of
diversification strategy in procurement.
Diversifying countries and projects,
diversifying contract types by combining
long and short-term deals, and using
different indices, and diversifying
[clears throat] supply routes.
Traditionally, our flows have been
centered on the Asia-Pacific region. But
we're now also looking to the Atlantic
side to broaden our supply channels.
Tokyo Gas President and CEO President
Shinichi Sasayama there speaking to
Bloomberg's Shery Ahn. This is
Bloomberg.
All right, we're checking markets here
this morning across to recap of course
that data dump that we got out of China
where we got we got the retail sales. It
was the weakest print we've seen since
the pandemic. Uh it looks like when it
comes to markets, they're kind of kind
of seeing through this sort of data here
right now. Shanghai Composite in
particular has been climbing back. Uh
we're our kind of slightly just above
flat here this morning. Uh HS Tech also
coming off some of the initial lows
here, but we're at still down about 1
and 1/2%. Hang Seng in particular though
also lower by about 186 points or so,
but certainly this sort of dichotomy
that as we've been talking to Nomura
about this, Chetan Seth saying that, you
know, that the the the the gap we've
seen between the economy and the macro
versus, you know, markets might actually
start to narrow, but they're still
seeing what it comes to CSI 300 or MSCI
China a 10% upside gain for next year
here. Uh let's get back to one of our
top stories this morning. At least 16
people were killed in the mass shooting
on Sunday. Two gunmen, a father and son,
opened fire on a crowd celebrating the
first day of Hanukkah in the park next
to Bondi Beach. Australian Prime
Minister Anthony Albanese called it a
quote targeted attack on the Jewish
community.
What we saw yesterday was an act of pure
evil.
An act of antisemitism.
An act of terrorism on our shores in an
iconic Australian location, Bondi Beach,
that is associated with joy, associated
with families gathering, associated with
celebrations.
And it is forever tarnished by what has
occurred last evening.
ABC News reporter Isabel Roe is now on
the ground and joins us there with the
latest. Isabel.
Hi. Thank you so much for having me.
Uh can you tell us a little more about
what's happening now?
So, I'm at a scene in the inner west of
Sydney. It's a place where a father and
son
shooter duo were uh staying the past
couple of days before they were uh
unleashing that horror that we have seen
at Bondi. Uh the pair was staying here
in a short-term rental. Uh there were
other people staying uh with them in
other rooms. They have come back this
morning to collect their belongings
after this place was raided overnight.
Neighbors say that they were uh yelling
at the house for people to get out and
there were police choppers overhead.
There is another scene in Sydney's far
west, uh the family home of this uh
father-son pair that has also been
raided and police remain there as well.
And of course, the scene of Bondi Beach,
uh one of utter devastation and sorrow,
and remains cordoned off this morning.
Isabel, can you tell us just a little
bit more about how the the everything
kind of transpired, right? I think you
know, it
over the weekend, I think you know,
there was so much cell phone video of
people
almost in real time just showing what
exactly happened, even including a
bystander who's now been hailed a hero
for really stopping one of those
shooters and and snatching, you know,
his rifle away from him uh during this
sort of exchange.
Tell us a little more about how all this
unfolded.
It was extraordinary. Uh you're right,
there was so much video because Bondi
Beach is such a popular spot and in a
hot uh Sunday afternoon that it was,
there were a lot of people around. What
happened was that people first started
to hear gunshots and people started
running from the scene. They didn't know
what they were seeing or what they were
hearing. Uh it's a very unusual sound.
You would almost never hear a gunshot in
this country. Uh what happened was that
two men, this father and son, a
50-year-old and 24-year-old, had uh
large uh rifles. They went to uh
pedestrian overpass that gave them some
height and they looked into a park just
at the Bondi uh beach there. They were
able to shoot uh at a Jewish
celebration. It was the first day of
Hanukkah. There were families and
children there uh dancing and singing uh
eating together and celebrating.
What unfolded uh was pure terror. The
witnesses I spoke to said that they were
uh shielding their children, that people
were running, and then of course,
victims uh lay on the ground. People
came in to help. Uh police and ambulance
were there extremely quickly. And as you
said, you could see in one of those
videos uh a bystander actually came up
from behind to one of the gunmen,
grabbed him around the shoulders,
wrestled the gun away from him and
pointed it at him. Uh he didn't shoot.
He then put the gun down next to a tree
and put his hands up to make sure the
police knew that he was not the shooter,
but uh that man is being hailed a hero
in this country for potentially saving a
lot more lives.
And we just heard from the New South
Wales police, uh also the premier there
talking a little bit more about, you
know,
the need for maybe a change in gun laws.
Now, Isabel, in light of this tragedy,
Yeah.
tell us a little bit more about the
reforms that could come up. I mean, what
are what is the government and how are
they responding to this to this incident
now?
Well, Australia has particularly strict
gun laws than it has ever since the
other mass shooting that we saw uh a
long time ago in this country in '94. Um
so,
the fact that this has happened has
raised immediate questions. The father
had uh six guns, but he was licensed to
have them. He was a member uh of a gun
club or a hunting club. His son,
however, the 24-year-old,
uh was known to ASIO. The ABC
understands that he was investigated at
least 6 years ago for his potential
connection to a Sydney terror cell. So,
the questions now are about why the
father of this man was able to have a
gun license and was able to have six of
these rather um large uh long guns and
whether or not the laws can be changed
to do anything about them. Now, the
premier, Chris Minns, as you said, has
said that he will potentially call
Parliament back uh to sit again. It's
already
uh finished for the year, but he said he
will call the Parliament back if
necessary to pass laws if there is
something that he thinks need to be done
that could have prevented something like
this.
Isabel, thank you. Isabel Roe there, ABC
News reporter joining us out of Sydney
here this morning. And for subscribers,
you could also turn to your terminal for
more on this story. T live go is your
function for the latest updates plus
commentary, of course, of this tragic
event. Uh that is also, of course, when
it comes to the data dump that we got
out of China. There is also one going on
for [music] that as well. This is
Bloomberg.
It's for you two live pictures [music]
out of Beijing. This is the National
Bureau of Statistics, of course, having
their monthly sort of press briefing
here after that activity data uh release
there. Uh what was mostly in the
supporting set of numbers here were all
the softer side here, especially when it
came to retail sales, uh which was the
weakest print we've seen since COVID, a
1.3% print for November. Uh we are
hearing from the National Bureau of
Statistics saying that China will
continue to deepen policies to boost
consumption and that household
consumption confidence needs a further
boost. What we've heard so far really
has been, you know, from the work
economic conference that was the
read-out that suggested maybe they could
actually extend uh some of these
trade-in programs for the consumption
side of things and what form certainly
is still a key question. Um but yeah,
we're also getting some breaking news uh
when it comes to the Jimmy Lai trial as
well. Let's listen to that. Uh so, it
seems like
the media mogul, Jimmy Lai, has been
found guilty on seditious publications
charge. He also has been found guilty
when it comes to the collusion charges
as well. So, this is of course, as we've
been talking about, uh a very
high-profile
uh national security law case here in
Hong Kong. And Jimmy Lai now confirmed
by the verdict here that he has been uh
put put found guilty when it comes to
sedition as well as collusion. Now, the
next step, of course, according to Min
Min Low is of course the the sentencing
side of things here. There has been
reports that he might face life in
prison uh given these charges. So, we'll
continue to uh of fire and take take you
to live to the scene. Uh let's bring in
Min Min Low uh with the latest. Min Min.
Yes, we just got the verdict, guilty of
all charges. The sentencing will be
announced on a separate day, but yes,
the maximum sentence could be life in
prison. And Jimmy Lai will have up to 28
days to appeal the verdict. Uh and just
now in the courtroom, the judges were
reading through some of the WhatsApp
messages between him and his assistant
pointing to how his assistant had helped
to set up meetings between Jimmy Lai and
some senior US officials and pointed to
how there was indisputable evidence uh
and said that he had harbored intent to
to collude with foreign forces and so
on. It was a a very long read-out of the
concluding remarks and the the total
verdict is uh over 800 pages long, I
believe. Uh and that will be made uh
online uh later on so we can pour
through the details. But yes, this is
uh of course, the conclusion of a
landmark trial, a miracle trial that
lasted over 150 days. Uh and it's a very
high-profile case because Jimmy Lai is a
household name in Hong Kong. Many people
know him as the founder of Apple Daily,
once uh a a now defunct newspaper that
was in very pro-democracy. It often
urged readers to take to the street
streets. It is known for its tabloid
style coverage of politics
of celebrity news as well. Uh and he was
one of the first uh to be charged under
the national security law after it was
imposed by Beijing back in June 2020. He
was arrested and charged in August of
that year.
We were talking about how Western
governments have been watching this
case, this marathon trial, as you've
been reporting, Miman, for more than 150
days or so.
You know,
what what what what likely might occur
from this verdict now? Um, you know,
obviously we heard from President Trump.
He's he's talked about, according to
some reports, vowed to save Li. You
know, is this likely going to raise more
tensions abroad?
Yeah, certainly I think we'll have to
watch closely what is the international
reaction after this, you know, whether
there would be more sanctions from the
likes of the US and UK on Chinese
officials, for example. We know that
already after the imposition of the
national security law, Trump, who was
then president president, had uh halted
the preferential treatment for Hong Kong
and sanctioned some officials that
cracked down on rights. Uh and certainly
President Trump has said that he raised
this issue again when he recently met
with President Xi in South Korea in
October. So, this could come up once
again, maybe when the two presidents
meet two presidents meet next year.
Could be part of the bargaining chip. It
would be interesting to see whether
China would be willing to give Trump a
win by suspending the sentence on
medical grounds, for example, in
exchange for some other concessions,
perhaps on trade or tariffs. But
certainly this is all speculation at
this point. We have to see what the
international reaction is. But the UK
Prime Minister Keir Starmer had also
said that it is a priority of his
administration to secure the release of
Jimmy Lai. And many international
organizations have been appealing on
humanitarian grounds and on medical
grounds to release Jimmy Lai given the
deterioration of his health. His family
members say that he suffers from heart
palpitation and his health has been
deteriorating. He's looked visibly
visibly thinner over the years.
And we are getting some lines now in
terms of the time frame here.
The hearing for the mitigation of Jimmy
Lai's case is set for January 12th. So,
that date has been set for the hearing
for that.
Miman, you you talk about his health,
you talk about really the the the
significance of this.
This this case has largely been seen as
sort of a a test case of this national
security law when it comes to freedom of
press,
when it comes to judicial independence
here in the city. You know,
what what's the message it's going to
send really to the international
community with this case?
I mean, it was a clear verdict from the
judges and obviously it is sending a
message that China is not going to
tolerate any form of, you know,
violation of the national security law,
right? The sort of protest that we saw
in 2019 and 2020. Obviously, here at the
at this courthouse, you can see that
around me there are many police officers
just maintaining the security of this
place, ensuring that there is no
disturbances, no sort of large-scale
gathering of people that that could
spiral out of control. And even when I
was talking to some of the supporters
who queued overnight to go into the
courthouse, many of them were wearing
masks or covering their faces with
umbrellas, not very keen to show their
face or speak to the media at all. And
there's this sense of cautiousness that
everybody is
is is taking here, especially after, you
know, Hong Kong suffered from that
deadly fire as well. Soon after that
fire, the national security office also
warned
people not to use that fire as a pretext
to incite chaos in Hong Kong. So, the
city has seen a lot of changes. We had
seen the closure of dozens of civil
service groups. Of course, over the
weekend as well, the Hong Kong the
Democratic Party also voted to dissolve
itself. The former chairwoman Emily Lau
announced that on Facebook, marking the
end of an opposition party that has been
operating since 1994, a party that has
been very outspoken in pushing Beijing
for democratic reforms and calling for
universal suffrage in Hong Kong as well.
Miman, thank you, Miman Lau, there, our
China correspondent with the latest
here. Of course, Jimmy Lai just
confirmed found guilty on all charges
here on this national security case.
We're going to switch gears and get to
one of our top stories here. We're still
awaiting that press briefing with the
Australian Prime Minister Anthony
Albanese after the nation's worst
terrorist attack that killed at least 16
people. Joining us now is Greg Barton,
research professor and chair of global
Islamic politics at Deakin University.
Professor, it's great to thank you so
much for joining us
um on such unfortunate circumstances, of
course. And thank you for your time.
I I wanted to get your take on
what might have been the motive around
this this deadly shooting. It seems like
these two
shooters were were targeting the Jewish
community. There is a lot of concerns
about, you know, in the nation about
whether the government did enough to
stamp out this anti-Semitism
in the country.
What is your take on what really
happened?
Good to be with you, Yvonne. This
appears to be a lone actor attack. I say
appears because the police are
investigating whether this father and
son duo were in communications with any
cells or networks in Australia or
abroad. But so far it appears that they
acted alone.
Police are treating it as a terrorism
investigation that unlocks more
resources for them. But there's good
reasons for
nominating this as a terrorist
investigation.
It clearly was an attack targeting a
Jewish Hanukkah family gathering on the
beach, a sort of a a very festive time,
much like Christian
Christmas gatherings. It's meant to be I
mean, Hanukkah is the festival of light.
It's about light overcoming darkness.
So, this is a terrible tragedy to have
come in this way. So, anti-Semitism was
clearly involved.
But we know that police are reporting
that Navid Akram, the younger of the
two, the son,
had been involved with an Islamic State
cell in Sydney in 2019.
Apparently, there was no further
contact. Police
had him on their radar, but they didn't
think he was likely to go into any
action. So, that's one of the things
that will now be investigated. But if
it's an Islamic State motivation, we
understand that story pretty well.
They're anti-Semitic. They're anti
everyone who's against them. And they
believe in using horrendous violence to
bring about a a shock and a revulsion
that brings about change.
It's likely that this pair was prepared
to die. They would have thought of
themselves as being martyrs or heroes,
going from zero to hero. So, there's a
psychological factor in the motivation.
But yeah, hatred of Jews, ugly stuff.
Um,
the the sort of extreme ideas of Islamic
State, if that's what is guiding them,
as appears to be the case. And then
perhaps a desire to become somebody in
in their own mind.
In terms of the immigration side of
things, I mean, Australia has been seen
as one of the places that, you know, a
society that has,
you know, opened its door when it comes
to migration.
Do you see any sort of change on that
front here in light of this this
tragedy?
I think some men in politics, um, and
not many, it must be said, will try and
get some traction from this in an
anti-immigrant way, as we're seeing in,
you know, other parts of the world, not
least the United States.
But the reality is Australia has a very
successful multicultural society. And
with this incident, it's true we had a
middle-aged Muslim man happen to be a
fruiterer who became one of Australia's
worst terrorists.
But another figure we've heard about,
Ahmad Al Ahmad, another middle-aged
Muslim Australian who also was a
fruiterer, as it happens, passed by
Bondi, didn't hesitate to get out and
sneak up behind the younger gunman,
tackle him, get his gun off him. He was
shot by the father twice in response.
Saved many lives, but also saved our
sense of hope in a multicultural
Australia, I believe. And we had another
incident not that long ago in Bondi,
where but not terrorism, but a Muslim
security guard, a young Afghan refugee,
lost his life tackling the assailant.
So, it's a reminder to put things in the
broader context.
And [clears throat] of course, we we
heard from
the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu with with some pretty harsh
words, you know, called out Australia
for failing to really,
you know, put an end to this sort of
anti-Semitism in in the country as well,
maybe showing weakness
by recognizing Palestine as a state as
well. What does this tell you about the
future of Australia and Israel relations
moving forward?
Well, they were difficult anyway, just
because of the circumstances in Israel,
and they're going to be continue to be
difficult.
It's
very very tragic that so much work has
been done over the decades to build
relations with the state of Israel
that has been unraveled so much in the
last couple of years, in part because of
the the
statements from the Netanyahu government
that that often seem to be at odds with
reality.
I think these statements will be seen in
the same way. It's true that there is
rising anti-Semitism. We've seen the
terrible consequences of this with this
attack, the worst terror attack on
Australian soil.
But it's also the case that Netanyahu
is, you know, deeply self-interested and
focused on domestic politics and his own
circumstances. So,
it's not that people reject the fact
that anti-Semitism is a problem. It's
just that this criticism from Netanyahu
doesn't seem to be genuinely guided by
concern for what's happening in
Australian society. It's more about him.
Is there
I mean, in terms of
stopping this sort of anti-Semitism,
what what's needed from from the
government? What sort of legislation,
you know,
or legislature is needed to really stamp
out this sort of violence?
Australia has some of the most complete
anti-terrorism,
uh, legislation in the world. I think we
can do more though when it comes to hate
speech. We don't have proper ways of of
documenting
hate incidents, whether it's
anti-Semitic or otherwise. We can do
more work in that space. I don't think
any legislative fix is going to
completely make us secure, but we need
to do more work on tackling hate. And I
think that the focus now needs to be the
whole of society. We've had Muslim and
Jewish leaders come out together and say
we need to not allow this to be a
turning point where hate turns in on us.
We need to overcome it. The message of
Hanukkah is, you know, the a light in
the darkness. And that has to be our
guiding principle going forward.
Greg, appreciate your time. Greg Barton,
research professor and chair of global
Islamic politics at Deakin University
joining us out of Melbourne. All right,
we'll leave you with live pictures out
of Sydney where a memorial is underway
at Bondi Beach. This is Bloomberg.
Just want to recap that China data that
we got here at the top of the hour, and
it was in most parts a miss on most
fronts in terms of the medium estimates
here this morning. Retail sales perhaps
is the bigger disappointment. Uh, just a
1.3% print. That is the weakest print
we've seen since COVID. Industrial
production also was a miss here. That's
despite of course the resilience that we
have seen from exports, but you know,
industrial production still seen as sort
of the bright spot there. Fixed asset
investments also continue to be in
contraction at 2.6%
down. Uh, we're hearing a little bit
more in terms of the lines here from the
National Bureau of Statistics. They're
talking about this, you know, the
investments and other things, which is
still heading for the first annual
contraction since at least 1998.
Well, policymakers are saying, you know,
China still has a lot of investment
potential there when it comes to
education, they say. Uh, but really what
they're talking about is the slump in
domestic demand as well. Uh, but they're
also talking about education and
housing. There's still potential for
investment there. Uh, but the next step
China needs to further stimulate private
investment and allow government
investments to play a better leading
role there. So, certainly they say a lot
of that has to do with decreasing
[music] investments in real estate as
well. Of course, the properties and
other things still on the weak end
there. Markets are doing this here.
Onshore looking a little bit better.
That's it for us here on the China show.